# BlackJackV2
This is a library that will train a neural net to play blackjack. It uses a basic genetic search algorithm to optimize the system weights. To run the program you simply need to run the "neuralmain.py" file. You can tune the hyper parameters of the system in this file. The boolean "show" indicates whether you would like the system to print what the neural net itself is doing. I have included a basic neural net library that utilizes a genetic search algorithm. If you would like to play the neural net itself, simply run the "main.py" program. This takes inputs from the user to play blackjack. Additionally, I have included a test harness in the "test_harness.py." This sets up the main cases for the neural net to see what its response is.

A few things on the neural net, I have found that the system trains most quickly when there are no hidden layers. After a few minutes of training this neural net loses about 6% of its bet per game on average. Adding additional hidden layers leads to a problem where the system finds a local minimum in always staying. This can be solved through the use of a very non-aggressive genetic search algorithm (like the one in the default code). One issue I am currently facing is the fact that I have been unable to tease splits and double downs out of a fully trained neural net. Additionally, I have been unable to make the neural net not take the insurance bet.

Part of the problem may be in the inherent randomness of the game of 21. Although taking insurance is on average a losing bet, the best performing nets will have a hot streak and actually profit off of always taking insurance. This in turn means that it spreads to the rest of population and then stays there forever. This issue could potentially be fixed by increasing the number of games played.

The net could also be trained more efficiently through the use of the test harness. Instead of simply playing hundreds of random games, the net could be forced to play each hand type a number of times (with random deck of course). This would mean that each individual in the population is faced with the same challenges
